DM-15367: Write user guide for initial DcrCoadds (#346)
lsst/pipelines_lsst_io: getting-started/dcr-guide.rst

######################################
Generating DCR Coadds with LSST ComCam
######################################

A walkthrough for building differential chromatic refraction (DCR) coadds by running the

> `dcrAssembleCoaddTask` on an example set of ComCam image data. Prior to generating DCR coadds, you must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` on an example set of ComCam image data. Prior to generating DCR coadds, you must
```

RST requires double backticks (``) for the proper formatting. I think I caught them all in the review, but I might have missed some so keep an eye out!

Author: Thank you so much for catching that! I will double check that everything has double backticks as I go through. I also plan to run Jenkins before merging. I'll send you a message when that's all done. Thanks!

have image templates.

.. note::

   This guide assumes the user has access to a shared Butler repository containing data from LSST ComCam via
   the `US Data Facility (USDF) <https://developer.lsst.io/usdf/storage.html>`__. This guide further assumes
   the user has a recently-built version of ``lsst.distrib`` from the `LSST Science Pipelines

>    <https://developer.lsst.io/usdf/stack.html>`__ (circa ``w_2022_30`` or later).

Reviewer: You'll need to use the weekly that your DCR changes were merged.

Generating AP Templates
=======================
For detailed instructions on generating AP Templates, please see the `Building good seeing templates

> <https://pipelines.lsst.io/getting-started/dc2-guide.html>`__ guide for details.

Reviewer: The DC2 guide no longer has a section for generating AP templates, it assumes templates will be imported. I'd suggest either copying the import section or linking to that section.

Author: I linked it!

Reviewer: Don't forget to change "generating" to "importing" in this section (including the header) since we're not generating anything anymore. :)

Author: Ah yes! Done. Thanks!

Assembling DCR Coadds
=====================

> To generate DCR coadds, you must use the `dcrAssembleCoaddTask` found in the `drp_tasks` package. This will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate DCR coadds, you must use the ``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` found in the ``drp_tasks`` package. This will
```

require image templates. Note: You will need to register your DCR subfilters prior to creating DCR coadds by

> using the following code:

Reviewer: Instead of using example code, I'd suggest linking to the relevant section in the Butler documentation (https://pipelines.lsst.io/modules/lsst.daf.butler/scripts/butler.html#butler-register-dcr-subfilters). This way you won't have to worry about changes, and anyone wanting to learn more has the link right there! :)

.. code-block:: python
    butler register-dcr-subfilters /repo/main 3 'g'

Creating Your DCR Assemble Coadd Pipeline
-----------------------------------------

> The first step in generating DCR coadds is to make a pipeline that runs the `dcrAssembleCoaddTask` from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in generating DCR coadds is to make a pipeline that runs the ``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` from the
```

> LSST 'drp_tasks' package. A sample `dcrAssembleCoadd` pipeline is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LSST ``drp_tasks`` package. A sample ``dcrAssembleCoadd`` pipeline is shown below.
```

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: yaml
```

>     :name: dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Ope, looks like my explanation didn't save. I've noticed that these `:name:` things don't actually show up as expected on the guides. Based on a section in the DC2 guide, at the end of the applicable section they have something like this: "Save the BPS configuration file as `ApPipe-DC2-bps.yaml`."

So maybe: "Save the pipeline file as `dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml`." at the end of the code block?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     description: The DCR assemble coadd pipeline for LSSTComCam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: A DCR assemble coadd pipeline for LSSTComCam.
```

    parameters:
      coaddName: dcr
    tasks:
      DcrAssembleCoaddTask:
        class: lsst.drp.tasks.dcr_assemble_coadd.DcrAssembleCoaddTask
        config:
          effectiveWavelength: 478.5
          bandwidth: 147.0

> To visualize your pipeline, you may wish to use `pipetask build` e.g.,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visualize your pipeline, you may wish to use ``pipetask build`` e.g.,
```

.. code-block:: shell

>     pipetask build -p $AP_PIPE_DIR/pipelines/LSSTComCam/dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml --pipeline-dot dcrCoadd.dot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipetask build -p path/to/your/dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml --pipeline-dot dcrCoadd.dot
```

    dot dcrCoadd.dot -Tpng > dcrCoadd.png

> Run `dcrAssembleCoadd` Pipeline

Reviewer: Personal preference, but I'd follow the same pattern you used for the next subsection:
```suggestion
Assembling DCR Coadds with ``pipetask run``
```

Alternatively:
```suggestion
Run ``dcrAssembleCoadd`` Pipeline
```

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: I think this is is highlighted red because it's cranky about the backticks. Depending on how you change the header, just remove the non highlighted hyphen(s) to fix it. :)

To run this task and generate coadds, make up an appropriate output collection name

> (u/USERNAME/OUTPUT-COLLECTION in the example below), and run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(``u/USERNAME/OUTPUT-COLLECTION`` in the example below), and run
```

.. code-block:: shell
    pipetask run -j 4 -b /repo/main -d "skymap='lsst_cells_v1' AND visit in (2024112800132,2024112900230)
    AND detector in (0,1) AND band='g'" -i path/to/your/templates,LSSTComCam/defaults
    -o u/USERNAME/OUTPUT-COLLECTION -p path/to/your/dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml

To tell the process to run in the background and write output to a logfile, you may wish to prepend pipetask

> run with nohup and postpend the command with > OUTFILENAME &. Once complete, you should have generated DCR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run with ``nohup`` and postpend the command with ``> OUTFILENAME &``. Once complete, you should have generated DCR
```

coadds from your templates.

Assembling DCR Coadds with BPS
------------------------------
To assemble DCR coadds using the Batch Processing System (BPS) you will need to create a BPS submission file

> that runs the `dcrAssembleCoadd` pipeline file you created above (this will be you `pipelineYaml` input). A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that runs the ``dcrAssembleCoadd`` pipeline file you created above (this will be you ``pipelineYaml`` input). A
```

sample BPS submit file is shown below:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: yaml
```

>     :name: bps_submit_dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    dmnum: '34910'

>     weekly: 'w_2025_05'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    pipelineYaml: '/path/to/your/dcrAssembleCoaddTask.yaml'

>     project: ApPipe-ComCam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    project: ComCam-DCRCoadds
```

>     campaign: DM-{dmnum}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    campaign: ComCam-dcr-assembleCoadd
```

    payload:

>       payloadName: DM-{dmnum}/{weekly}/ComCam-dcr-assembleCoadd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      payloadName: ComCam-dcr-assembleCoadd
```

######################################
Generating DCR Coadds with LSST ComCam
######################################

A walkthrough for building differential chromatic refraction (DCR) coadds by running the
``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` on an example set of ComCam image data. Prior to generating DCR coadds, you must
have image templates.

.. note::

   This guide assumes the user has access to a shared Butler repository containing data from LSST ComCam via
   the `US Data Facility (USDF) <https://developer.lsst.io/usdf/storage.html>`__. This guide further assumes
   the user has a recently-built version of ``lsst.distrib`` from the `LSST Science Pipelines
   <https://developer.lsst.io/usdf/stack.html>`__ (circa ``w_2025_09`` or later).

Importing AP Templates
=======================

> For detailed instructions on generating AP Templates, please see the `Importing good seeing templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on importing AP Templates, please see the `Importing good seeing templates
```

> <https://pipelines.lsst.io/getting-started/dc2-guide.html>`__ guide for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://pipelines.lsst.io/getting-started/dc2-guide.html#importing-good-seeing-templates>`__ guide for details.
```

   the user has a recently-built version of ``lsst.distrib`` from the `LSST Science Pipelines
   <https://developer.lsst.io/usdf/stack.html>`__ (circa ``w_2025_09`` or later).

Importing AP Templates
=======================
For detailed instructions on importing AP Templates, see the `importing good seeing templates
<https://pipelines.lsst.io/getting-started/dc2-guide.html>`__ guide for details.

Assembling DCR Coadds
=====================
To generate DCR coadds, use the ``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` found in the ``drp_tasks`` package. This requires
image templates. Note: Register the DCR subfilters need prior to creating DCR coadds by following the
`register-dcr-subfilters guide <https://pipelines.lsst.io/modules/lsst.daf.butler/scripts/butler.html#butler-register-dcr-subfilters>`__.

Creating Your DCR Assemble Coadd Pipeline
-----------------------------------------
The first step in generating DCR coadds is to make a pipeline that runs the ``dcrAssembleCoaddTask`` from the
LSST ``drp_tasks`` package. A sample ``dcrAssembleCoadd`` pipeline is shown below.

.. code-block:: yaml

    description: A DCR assemble coadd pipeline for LSSTComCam.

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be helpful to define `instrument` in this example, since that is required

    parameters:
      coaddName: dcr
    tasks:
      DcrAssembleCoaddTask:
        class: lsst.drp.tasks.dcr_assemble_coadd.DcrAssembleCoaddTask
        config:
          effectiveWavelength: 478.5

>           bandwidth: 147.0

Reviewer 2: Perhaps note that `effectiveWavelength` and `bandwidth` are in nm

Also worth noting that `dcrNumSubfilters` in the config *must* match the number of subfilters specified when running `register-dcr-subfilters`

Save the pipeline file as ``dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml``. To visualize the pipeline, consider using
``pipetask build``. For example,

.. code-block:: bash

    pipetask build -p path/to/your/dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml --pipeline-dot dcrCoadd.dot
    dot dcrCoadd.dot -Tpng > dcrCoadd.png

Assembling DCR Coadds with ``pipetask run``
-------------------------------------------
To generate DCR coadds using ``pipetask run``, make an appropriate output collection name
(``u/USERNAME/OUTPUT-COLLECTION`` in the example below), and then use the following code.

.. code-block:: bash

    pipetask run -j 4 -b /repo/main -d "skymap='lsst_cells_v1' AND visit in (2024112800132,2024112900230)
    AND detector in (0,1) AND band='g'" -i path/to/your/templates,LSSTComCam/defaults
    -o u/USERNAME/OUTPUT-COLLECTION -p path/to/your/dcrAssembleCoadd.yaml

To tell the process to run in the background and write output to a logfile, consider prepending pipetask
run with ``nohup`` and postpend the command with ``> OUTFILENAME &``. Once complete, the DCR coadds from
your templates should have generated.

Assembling DCR Coadds with BPS
------------------------------

> To assemble DCR coadds using the Batch Processing System (BPS), create a BPS submission file that runs the

Reviewer 2: Add a link to the BPS docs
